(upbeat music)
- Hello and welcome to another episode
of No Such Thing as a Fish,
a weekly podcast coming to you
from the QI offices in Hoburn.
My name is Dan Schreiber.
I am sitting here with Anna Tyshinski,
James Harkin and Alex Bell.
And once again, we have gathered around the microphones
with our four favorite facts from the last seven days
and in no particular order, here we go.
Starting with fact number one, and that is my fact,
my fact this week is that the original voice
of Porky Pig got fired for having a stutter.
- That is so unfair.
- It really is, isn't it?
Because they carried on with the stutter.
- Did they then do auditions for people being like,
you have to stutter?
- Well, they didn't really need to do auditions
'cause they had the great Mel Blank,
who is the finest voice of all time,
who eventually took over the role.
But the whole vocal styling of Porky Pig
was created by a guy called Joe Doherty.
He's a guy who died 1978.
So he existed in like the early 1900s
'cause Porky Pig was one of the original Looney Tunes,
if not the oldest.
- The oldest, the oldest continuous one, yeah.
- Yeah, exactly.
And so he did it for two years,
but the issue was it was really messing up recording times
'cause he couldn't control his stutter.
He'd get nervous.
- So he decided to give Porky Pig a stutter
and then deliberately chosen him,
or was it like vice versa?
- The first one.
- The first one, they decided to give him a stutter
and then said, okay, we'll pick a guy with a stutter.
- So the guy who invented him was Fritz Freelink.
And he said that he wanted someone with a stutter
because it would distinguish him from other characters.
Now, have you heard the original one?
- I have, yeah.
- It's like the new Porky Pig is like a fake stutter,
but the first one is just like a person with a stutter.
- Yeah, isn't it?
- Exactly.
- And with a very different voice.
- They decided they didn't like the kind of stutter.
So they were like, we're going in a different direction.
- He was taking too long.
He just couldn't get through the words.
- Yeah.
- It just took way too long.
- It's really sad.
- Yeah, yeah.
- 'Cause it's a bit like firing someone
of having a disability and then hiring somebody
to pretend to have that disability.
- Yeah.
- In a way, it wouldn't happen today.
- You'd hope.
- You would hope not.
- So Porky first appeared in a movie,
short animation called I Haven't Got a Hat.
So that was 1935.
So he was there for the two years.
- Of course, easiest to write cartoons back then, wasn't it?
For a laugh, that sounds like I haven't got a hat.
(laughing)
- It was kind of, he wasn't the main character.
He never was meant to be a main character.
He was like a production, a musical production
where they had a stage at school
and everyone was getting out of their seats
and Porky was really nervous.
So he's stuttering his way through the song.
But before Mel Blanc, who I said took over
and is the voice that we all know and love,
there was one in between guy who was called Count Guttelli
and Count Guttelli.
- He sounds like he is a Looney Tunes character.
- He does, doesn't he?
- Did he go on to do Sesame Street?
- Count Teno Guttelli.
This guy was known as The Big Noise.
Like he had 2000 sound effects to his name.
He was sought after by everyone.
- Like that guy from Police Academy.
- Exactly, Michael Winslow, yeah.
And when he died, the Berlin Anthropological Institute
offered $2,000 to his family to purchase his head and throat
so that they could study it after death.
- Hang on, did they remove his head?
- That's what they requested.
For $2,000, can you lob his head off with his neck,
which is quite a rare request, I would say.
- I feel like you probably get half the neck usually.
You go for the middle of the neck.
The whole neck is quite.
So would you have to cut it like a v-neck jumper
or something to get the full thing?
- Did they accede to this request?
- They did not, no.
They did not want to hand over the head or neck.
- Just fork out for the full body.
- If you want it that much, just have a three grand
and take the whole thing. - That's weird.
- Somebody ends up with sort of just like the shoulders.
It's really weird to have a headless body.
- Yeah, who wants a lower half then?
- I suppose they probably weren't giving away the rest of it.
They're probably burying that bit.
- I mean, people did used to get different parts
of their body buried in different places, didn't they?
- They did.
- It used to be relatively common, I think.
- But still, I think the full head off,
they seem to often take bits of the inside of the body off
or the other thing down. - Like the heart or something
like that, right? - Yeah.
- Einstein's brain was bigger than a normal brain
was why they wanted it, right?
- Yeah, the guy who invented head, shoulders, knees,
and toes, he's buried in four different places.
(all laughing)
- Where his eyes is mouth and mouth.
- Actually speaking of being buried,
do you know what's on Mel Blank's grave?
- Oh, it's lovely, isn't it?
- Yeah, is that all folks?
- Do the voice, please do the voice.
- That's all folks.
No, I can't do it, I can't do it.
- Lillie, lillie, lillie, lillie, that's all.
I can't do it, either.
- It's closer. - That was good.
- But do you know why it's on his grave?
- 'Cause he died.
- 'Cause he played porky pig and he died?
- It's a, that's a good guess.
- That's all refers to his life's back.
- Yeah.
- Folks refers to the people who are reading the graves down.
- Which will predominantly be humans.
- So you do understand the meaning of the phrase grave.
- I feel like we're missing something massive though, right?
- Well, it was also his last words.
- What is it? - So actually the reason
that his son decided to put it on the grave,
'cause a lot of people say it was in his will,
but I believe it's actually that he was filming a commercial
for Buick Automobiles, and in that commercial,
they got him to say that's all folks, as you would,
if you had Mel Blank doing a commercial.
And they were his last words.
- He dropped dead right then.
- Well, he didn't drop dead, he collapsed.
So they were his last words.
- 'Cause they do the music, like da, da, da, da, da, da, da.
- Yeah, they did it.
It was quite insensitive, actually.
His family sued afterwards.
- I don't think that counts as last words.
- What do you mean?
- Well, they're pre-written, they're not.
- But they were the last words he ever said.
- I know, but yeah, it's just--
- Which I--
- I know, that is quite, I think that counts.
- No, no, but it would be great if that was his final words.
- It would, just by chance.
- On his own, I'm at home, you know,
I'm dying on my bed.
I'm gonna go out with the porky pig line.
- My cat phrase, yeah.
- Well, I think that he probably did decide that,
'cause he actually lived for another few weeks,
but he didn't say anything else.
- I'm sorry, are you kidding yourself?
If I was him, I would go, excuse me, excuse me,
can I have a glass of water, that's all folks?
- Yeah, he's gonna make sure you keep going in.
Like, it was wasted the last few weeks of life,
just not talking to anyone.
Imagine they were quality time you could have had
with his family.
- All the things that were left unsaid,
because he didn't want to...
- All right, guys, quite often,
people don't speak for weeks before they die, do they?
'Cause they're in their own hospital unable to speak.
But I do like to think that he was lying there
faking a coma, just so he could make sure.
Anyway, his son was like, well, they were his last words,
I'll put them on his gravestone.
- I saw an interview with his son,
and he said that the porky pig voice
that he did was not a stutter.
He said that basically, Mel Blank once went to visit
a pig farm to get into character
to see what porky pig would be like.
And he saw the pig grunting in kind of a stuttering way,
and his porky pig voice was copying the pig's grunt.
It wasn't like a human stutter.
- It definitely doesn't sound like any
sound or stutter I've ever heard.
- It also doesn't sound like any pig I've ever heard.
- No, it's closer to the stutter than it is the pig,
I would say. - Quite pretentious things
where they're like, yeah, I spent like two weeks
like studying pigs in order for my role as a cartoon pig.
But you didn't need to do that, mate.
Like it's a stupid cartoon, no one takes it that seriously.
- Wow, they did take it quite seriously, didn't they?
I mean, they won Oscars, not necessarily for porky pig,
but for these cartoons.
- Did you read about the famous blooper reel of porky pig?
So this was 1938, and this was put together on purpose
'cause you can't have bloopers in cartoons.
- It's like at the end of Toy Story 2.
- Exactly where they do all that.
Yeah, so back in 1938, they were ready were doing this.
And so it's a video of porky where he smacks his thumb
with a hammer, he goes in pain, and he says,
oh, son of a gun, which was the stuttering trick
of porky pig, he would always not finish the word
and put a new word in, but then he turns to the camera
and says directly to the viewers, ha ha ha,
you thought I was gonna say, son of a bitch.
And he does say it, and yeah.
- Scandal. - 'Cause at the end of the show,
his catchphrase, he says, at the V 'cause he's trying
to say the end, and then he says,
that's all folks instead of the end.
- Did not know that.
- I think that's what it is.
- Really? - Yeah, I think so, yeah.
- Yeah, that sounds like it, yeah, I'm interested.
- And then they made that in 1938,
but it didn't get shown until the '90s, didn't it?
- Yeah, exactly.
- Because you couldn't show it in 1938.
- What, the word bitch?
- Well, no, you couldn't say bitch in 1938,
'cause like, obviously, frankly, my dear,
I don't give a damn, was '39, wasn't it?
So, yeah.
- And it was a corporate thing,
so they were doing it as a behind the scenes,
as a package of bloopers, they just put that in as a joke.
- Yeah, and then when they had the 50th anniversary
of Warner Brothers, that's when it came out
with a load of other bloopers.
- So how annoyed do you think they would have been
the animators at the time when some dickhead said,
"Look, we're gonna make this blooper thing,
"it's gonna take you about two weeks
"for a particular story, and it's not to be released ever."
Just a funny little in-joke for nobody.
- But I feel like around that time,
during that sort of golden age of animation,
and during all the Disney Studios things,
loads of incredible workmanship went into stuff like that,
that was just for internal use,
or they would put details in the designs of stuff
that no one would ever notice,
just because they had, frankly, the money in the time,
but also the passion and the craftsmanship,
and they were really into what they did,
which is quite nice.
- Do you guys know how Pocky Pig got his name?
- No.
- It seems like it's 'cause he was a pig,
and then pigs produce pork, doesn't it?
I don't like to do the old back at you.
- Do they produce pork?
Like milk, or are they pork?
(laughing)
- They suck pork.
- They do produce pork.
- That is obviously part of the story.
- Was it the result of sort of
six months brains drawing out a pig form
by the writers and then massive?
(laughing)
- It's, again, from Fritz Rieling, who created him,
and when he grew up, there were two brothers
who grew up in his neighborhood.
One was called Pocky, and the other one was called Piggy.
(laughing)
- No.
- Yeah, 'cause they were overweight children,
so they were kind of bullied with these names,
and then he took the names and used them for his character.
- Really?
- That's so weird that the most Piggy name for a pig
actually came from people.
- Yeah?
- 'Cause I would just think if you're porky and pig,
it's like pork and pig, the two piggy as well.
- That kind of says it is a very obvious thing
to call a Piggy character.
- We think it's obvious now, but at the time,
it's mind-blowingly imaginative.
- Sorry, who was the name of the count that you said?
- Count Cotelli.
- Yeah, that guy.
- It's C-U-T-E-L-L-I.
- It's kind of appropriate that he's Italian,
because the origin of Porky Pig he was based on,
or inspired by, a staple character
from traditional Italian comedy, the Comedia dell'arte.
- What was it?
- So like, from between like the 16th to 18th centuries,
there was this traditional theater comedy
and it used all of these staple comedy characters.
- Like the Harlequin?
- The Harlequin was one, which is the servant.
And yeah, Porky Pig is based on the Tartaglia,
which is Italian for stutterer,
and it's a far-sighted, dainty character
with a stutter.
- Really?
- Do you know who hated Porky Pig's stutter?
- Daffy Duck.
- You're somebody sad, a roadrunner.
- Porky Pig himself.
- Yeah, there was an episode where he hears himself
on a playback of an old tune of old McDonald Had a Farm,
and he hates the stutter so much,
that he smashes both the record and the playback machine.
And I read this in an academic paper,
which is called The Clinical Study of Porky Pig Cartoons.
And it's by Gerald F. Johnson.
And basically this was a paper that was trying to show,
did it have a positive or negative influence
to have a character that had a stutter like Porky Pig?
Because Porky Pig had jobs such as a farmer,
a gas station attendant.
- A farmer?
That's a bit dark.
- It is, yeah.
(laughing)
- Well, maybe it was horrible.
- Oh, right, okay, yeah.
- He was a railroad engineer, a pilot, a private,
in the French foreign legion, a newscaster.
So he sort of makes the point that any kids
that were watching it could see
that they could do multiple jobs.
- Well, this suggests me that he can't hold down a job.
(laughing)
- That's very true.
- That's a worrying CV.
- Yeah.
- But you know, I was just looking up treatments
for stutters throughout history.
And in the 19th century, there were obviously
shed loads of quacks suggesting you kind of like
cut your tongue in half or you slit that bit
under the bottom of your tongue or you shrink your tongue
by having it cut to, you know, lots of stuff
which never worked, so you're amazed how long it lasted.
But one of the leading quacks/doctors
who promoted stuttering cures was this guy
who went around Europe and actually was really important
in developing like welfare systems in Europe
because he went to the governments of places
like the Netherlands and Prussia and Belgium
and said, "I want you to implement my stuttering cure,"
which he'd actually bought from a woman called Widow Lee.
But anyway, his name was Mr. Malibush,
which means bad mouth.
- Wow.
- Dun dun dun.
I thought that was quite cool, amazing.
- Yeah.
- It's interesting that 80% of adults
who stutter are male, way more men stutter women.
And apparently they've done some like studies
and brain scans and the way that your speech patterns work
is just different between men and women when you stutter.
- Really?
- It's weird.
- Yeah, I think it's fully understood, but...
- There was a theory in the early 20th century
that eating too many vegetables caused stuttering vegetarianism.
And there was a psychologist called Knight Dunlap
who also founded the Journal of Psychology.
So he wasn't a proper quack,
but he thought that if someone stuttered,
maybe you should give them a diet of meat
and that would cure them.
- Pork?
(laughing)
- So when was that, sorry?
- That was early 20th century.
- Okay, so like during the war,
you had to really get the amount of carrots you ate right
for like good eyesight, but not bad speech.
- Oh yeah, that's true.
And also speaking of Mel Blanc, he never ate carrots, did he?
- Did he not?
- No, there's a famous thing,
like there's a thing online that he was allergic to carrots
which we think is not true, right?
- Okay.
- Yeah, it's not true, but do you know where it comes from?
The fact that people think he's allergic, it's because,
and it does actually make perfect sense.
So as Bugs Bunny, they experimented with lots of sound effects
for how you can generate the sound of eating a carrot.
And they realized that only thing that generates
the sound of eating a carrot is eating a carrot.
- Did they not have the big noise?
(laughing)
- The one thing he can't do is one weakness.
- Every time the big noise ate a carrot,
it was completely silent.
(laughing)
- It was so weird.
- It just sounds like a car going past, didn't it?
- Famously sucked his carrots like a lolly.
So they couldn't use him.
And so Mel Blanc realized he just had to eat carrots
in order to get the sound effect.
But once you're swallowing carrot,
then you can't say your line.
So he'd have a spittoon and he just had to chew a carrot
and then spit it out in order to then say his line.
And from there, develop the idea that,
oh, he's allergic to carrots
'cause he was always spitting carrots out.
- I would have just got a runner in
to eat the carrots in the microwave.
- I know, could they not hire a carrot eater?
- Especially if you can't talk and eat carrots, yeah.
- That would be the most awesome job, wouldn't it?
I'm a carrot eater for Mel Blanc.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is Alex.
My fact this week is that in the 1950s,
you could catch a bus from London to Calcutta.
- Okay.
- You did have to book, you couldn't just like tap, tap in.
- Yeah.
- I think, I don't think it's outside the office.
- Yeah, they didn't have an oyster zone in Calcutta.
- Where was the longest stretch
where if you missed your stop?
(laughing)
- Are you frantically pressing the bell?
So this is a bus service that ran from 1957 until 1976.
You could get single tickets or return tickets,
which I thought was quite weird
because you could take a bus to India
and then just be stuck there.
- Which lots of people did.
- Yeah, yeah, that's true.
It was 85 pounds for a single,
which I think is about two and a half thousand pounds today.
But it's more of a package holiday,
including travel and food and accommodation.
And it was another 65 pounds if you wanted to come back again.
- Okay, 'cause often a return ticket these days
is like two pounds more if you get a train.
- Yeah, no, no, this is almost double, yeah.
- Could you get like that thing
where you split your tickets
between all the different places?
- Yeah, split there.
- No, no, none of the complicated.
- God, we've come a long way haven't we?
- Yeah, but we can't go to India anymore on a bus, so.
- Right, if your bus is 15 minutes late
to the next destination,
can you reclaim all of the money?
- That would be great.
So this bus was equipped with beds and a kitchen
and heaters and a music system for parties, apparently.
And also something called reading facilities,
which I don't know what that is, like a chair.
- Like a library, I guess, like a bookshelf.
- Sounds like a movie bookshelf.
- It sounds like a Spice World bus.
- It does.
- It sounds like a lot of fun.
- So this specific first service was called The India Man
and it was run by a guy called Oswald Joseph Garrow Fisher,
which is, I've never heard of someone
who has a double barreled first name and last name.
- Do you know that he was known?
Everyone called him Paddy.
I was reading an article from the Buffalo Career Express
from the time and it said, obviously, again, of its time,
it said Garrow Fisher, who is better known as Paddy
because he is Irish.
- I mean, it is easier to say than Oswald Joseph Garrow Fisher.
- His name with all those hyphens actually would look like
a confusingly like the destination.
- It does, yeah, because on the outside,
it did say London, Kakata London on the bus,
which I think was quite cool because it is a loop trip.
And the bus went from London.
It was a 10,000 mile journey
on what became known as the hippie route.
So it went via Belgium,
what was then Yugoslavia to Northwestern India.
- And up through places today that you couldn't go through.
- I guess it must have gone through.
If it's gone through the Yugoslavia,
it must have gone through Turkey and then like Iran.
- Iran, Pakistan.
- It started a big phenomenon of bus journeys
all around the world and this route became quite popular,
but it ended because of-
- It was the Iranian Revolution, isn't it?
- Exactly, yeah, the wars.
- And a lot of my parents were not a lot.
A few of my parents' friends have done it.
It was the gap year of its day, wasn't it?
And they do talk about how different it was then
that you could go through all of these countries.
And I know it was Cold War, so it was, you know,
not a bed of roses,
but now you would be told it was too dangerous
to get a bus through any of those places.
And then you just went through
and we met with friendly receptions in all those countries,
but didn't they think they'd got murdered at one point?
- Yeah, so on the way there,
he writes all about the cliffs around Mount Ararat
and like going through these crazy like hairpin bends.
In Iran, they had to put wooden planks under the wheels
because the bus was sinking into the sand.
It had to be dug out of a bog in Persia.
It was sandstorms and rains and incredible heat
and collapsed bridges and like a crash.
Like, I mean, it sounds like a ridiculous journey.
And there's some amazing pictures you can see online as well.
And yeah, on the return trip,
they were massively delayed by like, I think a month
because of an outbreak of Asian influenza,
so they had to take a massive detour.
And that prompted a rumour
that they'd been kidnapped and murdered by bandits.
And I think the British Embassy in Tehran thought of that
and were so relieved that they like had a cocktail party
for them when they got there.
- I read that definitely they had the cocktail party.
I read that at the time in the newspapers,
but I couldn't find any evidence in the newspapers
that people thought they had been.
- I think it was a story, 'cause Garry Fisher said it,
and I think it was a bit of a,
hey, they thought we'd been killed,
so they were so happy to see us, probably a throwaway.
Did they think you'd been killed line
or did they just have some cocktails going there?
It's an embassy, they're always cocktails.
- They do have every bus that comes in.
- Exactly, we got invited to an embassy once
just for being in town, didn't we?
- Well, I thought they thought we'd been murdered.
- But yeah, 50 days, they were 50 days delayed back,
which is, I mean, oh, I feel sorry
for the people waiting at the bus stop.
- And then three came along at once.
- I can't do three minutes on a Jubilee line.
- And they were called Freaks,
weren't they?
They called themselves Freaks, the hippie trailers.
And there's still a street called Freak Street in Kathmandu,
which was sort of like famously the kind of center
of where all the hippies sort of ended up, hung out,
built lots of communities.
Yeah, so they're still Freak Street,
and it inspired Lonely Planet, the hippie trail.
So Maureen and Tony Wheeler, they did the hippie trail,
and then they thought, "This is fun, we'll write about it."
They messed up the name.
They listened to a song
and thought it referred to Lonely Planet.
It was a song called Space Captain by Joe Cocker,
and it actually referred to Lovely Planet,
which makes more sense.
They should have called it.
- Lonely Planet is actually quite a sad title
for a traveling book.
It doesn't really inspire offensive thought.
- It is for people who travel on their own,
isn't it Lonely Planet?
Or it was originally, I think.
- Maybe it was originally.
- That's what I would have assumed.
But don't, like, I'm single,
I buy all products as single people.
- Don't put the word Lonely in the branding.
- So you go to the saves,
reason you get a lonely meal for one.
- We know Wendy's meal for one, right?
She's like, "Oh, thank you."
- "Sad, she's good."
- "What do you think I've got?"
- This is my dialon single bed.
- Some stuff on buses.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Here's the thing.
Who was the first person to ever be thrown under the bus?
- Oh.
- You know, this is like a cut.
If you watch the traitors and stuff these days,
everyone's saying, "Oh, I threw them under the bus,"
"oh, they're gonna throw me under the bus."
- Is it gonna be like a Roman, like,
thrown under the chariot?
- Wait, so are there two possible answers here?
One of, someone was thrown under a bus physically,
but then someone used the term for the first time later?
Or the two combined?
- Okay, so my question to you is the term
to be thrown under the bus.
Who was the first person that that term was used about?
Not who was literally thrown under the bus.
It's all metaphorical.
- Was it connected to buses in any way, though?
Was it totally detached from what they were doing?
- Totally detached.
- Is this guessable?
- In my experience, with the QI stuff,
it's either gonna be Stone Age, or it's gonna be 1800s,
but never again.
- Okay, it's neither of those things.
It's guessable because it's one of the most famous people
in British history.
- Yeah, yeah, okay.
Who was betrayed?
- Keep going.
- Who was betrayed?
Come on, let's think of someone famously betrayed.
- Thatcher.
- Correct!
- Alex is just a listing famous people.
- Name conservative MPs and stuff.
- I hate people who play 20 questions like that.
Don't use all your guesses on names.
(laughing)
You got lucky this time.
- So this was, basically,
if you wanted to get rid of a politician,
you would say, what if they fell under a bus?
- Right.
- Do you know what I mean?
- We can't get rid of them any other way.
- Maybe with a little accident.
- Yeah, we can't get rid of them any other way.
What if they fell under the bus?
Then maybe we'll get a new leader kind of thing.
So that was a saying.
But during the early 1980s,
when the Falkland Island invasion happened,
someone in the UK said President Galtieri of Argentina
pushed her, meaning Margaret Thatcher, under the bus,
which the Gossips had said was the only means of her removal.
So it was, falling under a bus was always a thing,
but this was the first time someone was
metaphorically pushed under a bus.
- Oh, really?
Wow.
A lot of people threw her under the bus, didn't they?
I'd never thought of Galtieri as being the main guy.
- This, well, she did last quite a long time after that.
(laughing)
And actually, the Falklands law didn't really do
her any damage at all.
They almost threw her into the driving seat of the bus.
- I would say so, yeah, rather the opposite.
- They threw her into that best seat on the top deck,
where it looks like you're driving.
- Oh, yeah, yeah, and that is a good seat.
- Yeah, but you don't have enough leg room,
so swing them around a bit.
Okay, just me who complains about that.
(laughing)
Never mind.
Do you know there's a bus route in London
between West Ealing and West Rye Slip,
which is about a 20, 25 minute journey.
And it goes once a week on Wednesdays at 11, 17
in the morning, and no one gets it.
- It's purely for throwing politicians under.
Those two places are very close,
relatively close to each other.
- Yes.
- And I can't think of any reason
why I would ever want to go between the two of them.
- I think, you know--
- Is it a ghost bus?
Is it real?
Is it a ghost bus?
- There you go, it is a ghost bus,
and people of West Ealing or West Rye Slip
who have friends in the other,
please write to James complaining about,
you know, why you might want to.
- Oh, yeah, I'll wait for the flood of e-bells to come in.
- I'm gonna go ride it.
I love riding a ghost bus.
- Yeah, well, it's the kind of thing
that people like you do ride.
I think--
- Let's try to get a little less contempt.
- I can only get singles tickets,
because no one has a ticket.
(laughing)
- Fuck you.
- It is a ghost bus, though, you're right.
And it's related to ghost trains,
which I actually don't think
we've ever mentioned on this podcast,
but ghost trains are train routes that are kept open,
even though no one gets them,
because it's actually bureaucratically really expensive
to shut down a specific route.
So there are various routes in the UK, 30 or so,
where no one gets this train route,
but the train still runs.
So that, you know, if you wanted to reopen it properly,
then it's still open.
- But there's more reasons to keep a ghost train,
'cause it maintains the track and keeps everything running
and keeps your train in good order.
Whereas a ghost bus,
you just use the bus somewhere else
and what's the reason for it?
- Well, because this used to be a train route
and no one was getting it.
- Was it just driving on the train tracks?
- No, it's not driving on the train tracks,
if you will hear me out.
- Sorry, sorry.
- It used to be a rail route.
The rail route no longer exists,
so it is a bus replacement service.
So this is called a bus replacement service.
- A permanent bus replacement service.
- For a rail that doesn't exist anymore,
and it's because it's bureaucratically too expensive
to cancel the rail route.
- Can I ask, why did they remove the rail route
when so many people want to go
for West Rhyslip to Ealing or whatever it was?
- All right, there's only one person,
but they made that trip all the time.
- Do you reckon they'll continue downgrading it
and then eventually they'll just be like a skateboard?
- Yeah.
- If you want to, it's technically a DFL service.
We're talking about a rail replacement bus service.
Have you heard of a bus replacement rail service?
- Bus replacement.
I haven't, but I get it and it feels plausible.
- So in 2016, there were two villages in Scotland,
one at Ked and Lead Hills, and they're in South Lanarkshire,
and the road connection then was closed
for resurfacing for a week.
But this was a bit of an issue for people
who live there, a lot of elderly people,
there's a doctor's surgery in one,
and shops in the other,
and then he's get one to the other.
And there was a 45-mile diversion,
if you want to drive around,
so it wasn't really workable for all these people.
So there was a small volunteer-run railway line
that goes between the two,
and it's just a tourist attraction.
So the authorities decided to turn it
into an official service
that you could actually travel between.
- With the two old grannies who do the heritage tickets
and they're all typewriter,
having to print out just hundreds of days.
- Thousands and thousands of commuters
every morning are coming in.
- Absolutely.
- And it's, I think, the only one of its kind.
- Very cool.
- I've heard of that.
- That is very cool.
- In 2015, there was a tweet that went viral
for revealing that there was a bus service
that went to Woking.
And do you know what number it was?
What number bus you'd get to Woking?
- 69.
- I'm sorry.
- No, I don't know.
(laughing)
- Oh, 95, working 95.
- Nine.
- Yeah.
- Oh.
- Nine to five.
- Because I went through Woking on a train once,
and I saw the word Woking,
and I was just thinking, oh, Woking, nine to five.
And then I looked at my watch,
and it was eight to five in the morning,
'cause I was going somewhere in the morning.
- Oh, okay.
- So I was like working five to nine close enough
and tweeted it.
- It's not close enough.
- It has to be exact.
- Woking five to nine is kind of funny.
Like it's funny enough.
- Oh yeah, five to, yeah, okay.
- Didn't you want to say a successful tweet?
- No, it did not.
- Okay, so yeah, there was a bus service called 925.
This guy tweeted it back in 2015,
except after getting however many retweets and likes,
turned out that he had photoshopped it,
that it didn't exist,
that it was in fact the 701.
So this bus didn't exist.
However, the people who ran the bus service
loved it so much that a few years later,
they did change it to the 925.
So the joke became a real thing.
But here's what's interesting.
- Oh my, sorry, my story was less good,
but at least it was true.
(laughing)
- This guy made a joke, which then got turned true,
which is pretty incredible.
- He lied, he lied.
- Okay, wow.
- Could I quickly do one more thing about going to India?
- Yeah.
- So there's a book called "Husband Hunting in the Raj"
by Anna Corsi.
And she's writing about how lots of women
in the late 19th century would go to India
to look for a husband.
And that's because the Indian civil service
insisted that all its male staff
remained bachelors until the age of 30.
And in those days, if you're a woman
and you were not married by the time
you were in your mid to late 20s, then you were--
- A lonely woman.
- You were a lonely woman, yeah, exactly.
And so apparently there was this sort of big influx
of British women who every year
would just all go to India to find a husband.
- Wow.
- Snap out of those single civil servants.
- This is amazing.
And there was loads of like pamphlets and books
that people would write to tell you what to do
if you're a woman going to India.
There was one, a few words of advice on traveling
to ladies by a guy called HMLS, we don't know who it was,
who said, "Choose a simple dress of soft warm tweed
of that gray color.
It is also a good plan to use very old underclothing
such as can be thrown away when soiled."
- Excuse me?
- That is a good--
- Is that about the curries?
- It doesn't, there's no information.
- I reckon that's about the curries.
- No, you're on a long pass.
- You know laundry, so they're like,
don't waste your good stuff
'cause you're gonna have to chuck it.
- This isn't a bust to say this would be
on a steamliner or something.
- Oh, okay, right.
- But I mean, it's all very long journey.
- These poor men, all these women turning up
being like, "I'm not wearing anything under this tweed."
(all laughing)
- It was when we set up.
- It's in this plastic bag.
(all laughing)
- I'm just gonna tie it to this tree.
- Yeah.
- This poor town half way to India,
they just got piles of dirty women's laundry.
Things, like, splited.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for fact number three,
and that is James.
- Okay, my fact this week is that hockey masks
were invented thanks to chronic sinusitis.
- Well, there is only one pewed tissue
just around the nose.
- Exactly, no, this is something that strikes home to me
because I am a very keen hockey player.
No, I suffer from sinusitis quite a lot.
So, I'm really glad that some good has come out of it.
(all laughing)
And this is the hockey mask.
And when I say hockey mask,
one, I'm talking about ice hockey.
Two, I'm talking about the mask
that a gold tender would wear.
- Yep.
- So, you know, it's not the helmet that everybody--
- It's the Halloween film.
- Yeah, Jason.
- Jason Voorhees' one, yeah, exactly.
- Who suffered from chronic sinusitis?
- Yes.
(all laughing)
- Which is why he was so angry.
- So angry.
(all laughing)
- But he never said anything.
He was like, "Pffft!"
(all laughing)
- So, this was a guy called Jacques Plant,
or Jacques Plant, or Jacques Plant.
(all laughing)
Or Chante, Je m'appelle Jacques Plant.
And he had terrible sinusitis,
and he had an operation.
And after he had the operation,
he had to keep his nose intact,
but he still wanted to play hockey.
And so, he wore a mask to stop the puck
from hitting him in the face.
His coach, who's called Toe Blake,
his first name was Toe.
(all laughing)
That's in the bit at the end of your foot.
He wasn't very happy about it,
but he said, "Okay, well, you know,
"I need you on the team, whatever."
As long as you take it off
when your sinusitis gets better, then it's fine.
- And when, this was the '50s?
- Oh, yes, I should say this was the late '50s.
And then, later on, he was hitting the face with a puck,
and he went off and came back with a mask again.
- Mid-game, yeah.
- Mid-game.
And then, they went on a massive winning streak.
And so, the manager said, "Okay, fine.
"Like, this is obviously working."
And then, all the other goaltenders saw this as a good idea,
and it just became everywhere.
- And he really defied Toe Blake's wishes,
because Toe was like,
- Yeah, he was a dick about it.
- "You get that mask out of here."
And he was like, "No, I'm going on with the mask,
"or I'm not going on at all."
And he was in there--
- He was entirely fair, like, with a broken nose,
like, hitting the puck in the face with a puck.
- Yeah, and it's not the first time
anyone's ever gone on with a mask.
- No.
- It happened, you know, sporadically throughout the years,
because people had had their face busted up.
But Plant, Planty,
he's the one who said, "No, I'm wearing it,
"and I'm going to wear it again, and again, and again."
And then, slowly changed the culture of ice hockey.
- Yeah.
- Game by game.
- He gave the finger to Toe.
(laughing)
- He sure did.
- I haven't said anything for three minutes.
(laughing)
- Do you know why Toe Blake was called Toe Blake?
- Well, because both of his parents were also called Blake.
(laughing)
- Yes.
- And by tradition, you keep the surname.
- He's bang on, guys.
- Was it a family name?
Were there five or four other Toes?
- Did he have one enormous Toe?
- No, I'll give you, it was a Toe.
(laughing)
I'm like, like, inspired kids.
He was.
(laughing)
He wanted to, yeah,
they wanted to donate his Toe to science afterwards.
It was so prominent.
A clue, Buzz Aldrin.
- Oh.
- Oh, he left his Toe on the moon.
He gave his Toe to Buzz Aldrin.
- It was a small Toe for them.
(laughing)
- Okay, so Buzz Aldrin got his name
because his sister said his,
- Yes.
- Called him Buzz.
So his real name is Hector,
but his little sister,
heck Toe, heck Toe, Toe, Toe is where it's stuck.
But what he was known as within the ice hockey world was,
- Head, shoulders, knees up.
(laughing)
- Who would have thought you'd get two
head, shoulders, knees and toes to get into one book of?
- No, he was known as the old lamplighter.
- Really?
- And he's amazing.
- And what, so why?
- He's been listed as one of the 100 greatest
NHL players in history.
- Sure.
- The old lamplighter because he's so good at scoring goals
that a light goes on when you score a goal.
- Oh, of course.
- To let you know he's the old lamplighter.
- Oh, that's good.
- Yeah, that's very nice.
- So the first actual example of anyone wearing a mask
that we know of was a woman called Elizabeth Graham
of Queens University who in 1927 wore a fencing mask.
And according to her son, she had done it
'cause she'd recently had dental work
and she wanted to protect her teeth.
- There does seem to be a vanity element
to the original masks 'cause there's her
who didn't wanna damage more of her teeth
or get more dental bills.
- So it goes a little bit beyond vanity.
So I don't want my teeth smashed up.
- Yeah, that's very nice.
- It's a hard puck.
- I'm sorry, pucks.
- They trashed it your face.
- 160 kilometers an hour.
I don't think it's like, oh, you're absolutely worse.
You want a mask in your face.
I just think they're so mean back in the day.
- No, but it was, I think she specifically said
that she was trying to save her dad the dental bills.
But that's probably because she was too afraid
to just say, I'm really scared of being
wiped in the face with a puck.
But also there was a guy called Jack Crawford
who was one of the first people to wear a helmet
in italki and that was in the 1930s.
And he wore it apparently 'cause he was bald
and he just wanted to conceal his bald patch.
- That's so funny.
- That's so great.
- That's rotating a vanity.
- Yeah, yeah, that's more a vanity thing.
You're absolutely right.
- I wouldn't put the vanity on the only woman
that we have in this question.
- I'm allowed to do whatever I like
with the only woman in the question, Alex.
- Do you know that when actually speaking of women in hockey,
when international women's hockey
first became a big thing, and this was in the 1980s,
a lot of the leagues required breast protectors.
So you had to wear something solid over your breast
so that they don't get hit by the puck.
But one of the problems that they had in,
I think it was in Sweden, is that one of the referees
refused to check if the players were wearing them.
So they couldn't enforce the law
'cause it was a male referee
and he wouldn't go in and just prod and go.
(laughing)
- Are they just very hard breasts?
Are you wearing a protector?
- That's a weird job, isn't it?
Like, what do you do, like,
to grope women before games?
- I started as the carrot eater from Melbourne.
(laughing)
- Well, we're on referees.
Has anyone heard of Frederick Charles Albert Waghorn,
AKA the old wag?
(laughing)
- He had a tail?
- No, he's quite an innovative hockey referee.
He's set a lot of rules.
One of the biggest things that he did
was referees didn't used to have a whistle.
Instead of a whistle, do you know what they had?
They had a cowbell.
- That makes sense.
'Cause it's like an alpine, I don't know, like mountainous.
- 'Cause you have cowbells into nose sometimes?
- Yeah, I know, I'm not really going anywhere with that.
(laughing)
- The problem was, is that people kept turning up
with their own cowbells.
So you had people making it so that plays
couldn't happen.
- So what they did is they used something
that no one else could possibly get a hold of, a whistle.
- Exactly, now this is what's so amazing.
- It's impossible that the audience was just cows.
(laughing)
- But this is what's amazing about the old wag's decision
is that there wasn't, at the time,
a thing of you having a whistle.
Whistles weren't, like, we're living in a time
where whistles weren't that commercial.
- You're right, because at the start of the 20th century,
everyone used to carry a cowbell around.
(laughing)
- Exactly, and the cowbells were big.
- There was a lot more farming going on, maybe.
That was more accessible.
- Yeah, no one really had them.
So you were more likely to have a cowbell
come to a hockey match than you were a whistle.
This is true.
And so he introduced the whistle.
He introduced professional referees in amateur hockey games.
The practice of dropping the puck from a few feet high
when you're going for the at the start, he did that.
And he also said you can't count it as a goal
if the puck breaks in half and half the puck
goes inside the net.
You need the full puck going inside the net.
I guess maybe back in the day,
the materials were different and it did happen.
But here's the thing about the whistle.
He took it from being, not only introduced it,
but took it from being a steel whistle
to a plastic whistle,
because referees kept getting their lips stuck around it
in the ice cold.
- It's so cold.
- Yeah, it goes to whistling.
What's wrong?
(whistling)
(laughing)
- That's so funny.
- Something else that hockey masks have given us.
The world record for the farthest eyeball pop.
I...
- Oh.
- Woo!
- Yeah, he's like in a cartoon, exactly.
Some people can pop their eyeballs sort of out
quite far out of their sockets.
- Yeah, so deliberately as opposed to an accidental pop.
- Well, yes, I guess so.
So this is the world record for the farthest eyeball pop
by a woman, and it's 12 millimeters,
which is quite a lot, obviously.
It's by a woman called Kim Goodman.
She discovered the talent when she was hit on the head
by a hockey mask and her eyeballs popped out.
- What was the context for a hockey mask
hitting her on the head?
- I actually don't have it.
'Cause what happened was that her eyes went
(imitates popping)
out of her head and she was like,
"Oh my God."
And then she discovered she could do this,
and then now she holds the world record
for the farthest pop.
- How bizarre.
- So this is just for women though,
because obviously all men have that
whenever Jessica Rabbit wants.
- Yeah, exactly, yeah.
(all laughing)
And they go, "Ooh, got a noise!"
Yeah.
(all laughing)
- It is funny how much pushback there always is
to protective equipment in sports
because it kind of degrades the sport.
I mean, people had the piss taken out of them a lot,
didn't they?
The first people to wear a hockey mask,
the first people who were wearing helmets,
and people used to have extraordinary injuries.
They still do, actually, really awful injuries sometimes,
but like eyeballs being slashed and stuff like that.
- What?
- Brian Berard, I think, had he lost an eye
and then continued to play with 20 over 400 vision.
- The old winker.
(all laughing)
He had 20 over what?
- 400 vision.
He had numerous operations on his eye
to help try and restore his sight
until it was eventually at the legal limit,
which is 20 over 400.
We have 2020, but that means that what I can see
at 400 feet, you, as 20 over 400,
can't see into the other 20 feet away.
(all laughing)
- What did that mean?
- And then he was still quite good at hockey, actually.
- Yeah, cool.
- But not as good as he would have been.
Are you guys familiar with the most popular genre
of sports romance in the world?
- Okay.
- Well, it must be hockey related.
- Yeah, there is a clue in the fact
that I've inserted it into this fact,
but hockey romance is extremely popular.
- Is it literature, you mean?
- Yeah, hockey romance novels.
So Amazon has a list of the top sports novels,
sports romance novels.
- She gave me a Zambona.
(all laughing)
- Wanna park?
That one I get.
(all laughing)
- All right.
What was the first one?
- A Zamboni is that little machine
that drives around to make the ice smooth.
- Oh, I didn't know that.
- James is actually much better
'cause the park one is used in almost every title
in the book.
(all laughing)
- Oh, so I'm the commercial.
- Sorry, man.
- I'm the one keeping this industry afloat, am I?
Apologies.
I'm the one who's doing some esoteric poetry.
- Yeah.
(all laughing)
- James, your calf dress can be discovered
after your time.
- Exactly.
- With the old Dan Brown over here.
(all laughing)
- It's amazing though.
They sell so many all the top 10 books
in Amazon's list of sports romance
are all hockey romance.
- Well, I wonder what their demographic is.
- Do you?
- Canadians?
- I think I can tell you.
(all laughing)
- All right, I'm sorry.
I'm just wondering.
What is it?
- I think it's Canadian women.
- Okay.
- So they sell up to two million,
estimated two million for the most popular,
which I can tell you as people who sell books
is more than we've sold in many of our books
by about 100.
(all laughing)
And yeah, they all have titles like "Puck Me"
and "Pucking Around" and "Hot as Puck."
- It doesn't sound like romance.
It sounds more like erotic pornography literature.
- I think they are traversing that line quite a lot.
- Yeah.
- And do you think that,
I wonder if it's less about Canadian women just like it
and more about you're gonna write a sporting erotica book
and it's the easiest pun to make it?
(all laughing)
- Give me right.
- We were talking about ghost bus stops earlier.
Last fact.
(all laughing)
- I don't even just realize how much
like ghost bussters they are.
- Remember, I think there's a company in London,
there's a company in London that does bus tours
of like ghost tours of London.
They're called ghost bus tours.
And I think that's such a good pun.
- Oh yes, that's lovely.
That's really good.
- See, that goes down again with a commercial pun.
(all laughing)
- So, do you know what a ghost keeper is?
- Ghost keeper, so it's presumably about hockey.
- Yeah.
- It's a goalkeeper that lets all the goals in.
- He's actually.
- Go straight through him.
- He's actually a real person.
- Oh, okay.
- Yeah, he's called Jim Bob, ghost keeper.
And he is-
- You're all ghost keeper.
He's a Canadian hockey goalkeeper.
And the reason he's notable is that in 2018,
he won Name of the Year.
You know, there's those competitions together.
- Oh yeah.
So that's his real name, is it?
- It must be.
I think that's part of the,
or certainly it must be his depold name.
Yeah.
Just 'cause I do love a hockey nickname.
So goalies have great nicknames.
There's John William Bauer,
who was known as the China Wall.
Couldn't get past him.
- The China Wall.
- You mean the Great Wall of China?
- Yeah, exactly.
- A, you can get through that.
And B, a wall made of China would be very smashable
by a park traveling 160 kilometers an hour.
- That's true.
- Yeah.
- Maybe he's visible from space.
- Yeah, that's what it is.
- Something I thought was really interesting
that I didn't know about hockey.
And I'm sure people who watch it a lot will,
is that, so 10% of ordinary people left handed.
In hockey, the majority play left handed.
60 to 70% of NHL players shoot left handed.
And it seems to be that basically in hockey,
it's really important to be quite ambidextrous
because, you know, you're having to both hands a lot
and flip it around.
And so I think a lot of coaches think the way
to get super high level, and the more high level
you get, the more left handed players you get,
the way to get super high level is to breed ambidexterity.
So they're just taught from a young age,
shoot with your off hand.
So isn't that weird?
- You want to come up with a whole new thing,
like learn to play it, holding it with your mouth
or something, so you can both hands,
like come up with something that's really crazy.
- What are you going to do with your hands while you're...
- I don't know, yeah.
- Because the only thing you could do with your hands
in a game of hockey is to hold the stick.
- Yeah, that's true.
I'm just trying to think I was like...
- You can write hockey romance novels
with your hands while you're playing your mouth.
- You can check if the people are wearing
the breath protectors on top.
- I can imagine what the romance is
if you've got a hockey stick in your mouth.
(all laughing)
- When the puck though.
- That's really interesting because ice hockey
came from another sport called shinny.
- Oh, that sounds painful.
- Yeah, I think that is probably where it got its name,
that people would be wrapped on the shins,
because there's lots of different rules to this.
Basically it's hitting a ball into a goal,
quite often on the ice in the winter.
But one rule that seems to be common,
no matter how the game was played,
is that you had to play it right-handed all the time.
But if you hit a shot with your left hand,
the nearest opponent to you had to shout,
"Shinny on your own side!"
And then was allowed to hit you in the shins
with their stick.
- Oh, God.
- That was, yeah.
- I guess you're getting the warning, though.
- Yeah, I mean, you can sort of like plench yourself.
- You can't plench your shins.
(all laughing)
- You can't, there's nothing to do.
- I feel like you can.
- Plench your shin muscles.
- Psychologically prepare for it,
but you can't physically.
- Oh, I tell you what.
- You could run away.
- I'm clenching my shin right now.
- No, you're not.
You're clenching your calf.
I reckon.
- Yeah, but it's pulling back the muscle.
It's pulling back the skin.
- That's the point.
There's nothing in between your shin,
but there's a few layers of skin in the tiny bit.
There's no muscle.
- You're right.
If anything, you want to have a punch to your shin,
so it doesn't hit the bone.
- When he walked into the room,
he had incredibly muscly thighs,
but a porch on his shin.
(all laughing)
He was clearly a hockey player.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show,
and that is Anna.
- My fact this week is that the Lesseroo people
of Papua New Guinea all avoid having sex
during the pig-farrowing season.
- That's my excuse.
(all laughing)
- The Lonely Lesseroo People.
- Every season is pig-farrowing season
in the Alex Bell world.
What's pig-farrowing?
- Yes, it's when pigs are giving birth.
And I find it quite interesting that there's,
it's specifically for pigs, only pigs-farrow,
which is nice that they've got that special word
when they're all getting piglets.
And I actually read about this
when I was researching last week's fact,
and we were talking about pregnancy stuff,
and I was reading about Kuvaad, which is the practice
which happens in various cultures around the world
where men sort of take on pregnancy symptoms
or enact pregnancy symptoms or sometimes experience them.
They'll take to their beds,
they'll perform certain rituals.
Anyway, I was reading about this in Britannica,
and it was talking about the Lesseroo men of Papua New Guinea.
And it said they avoid certain things
before the birth of children in that mimicking pregnancy way.
But this also applies to non-human propagation
as they put it.
So the whole community avoids intercourse
while pig-farrowing is happening.
- Important question is how long is the pig-farrowing season?
- Yeah, good question.
- Season's a big word.
- Yeah.
- It's not the pig-farrowing afternoon.
(all laughing)
- I don't know, but I mean, I think it's a few weeks,
but I like to think that the pigs really drag it out,
watching these sex-starved Melanesian men.
Yeah, it was interesting.
Lesseroo is just a little village in Papua New Guinea,
so it's a small portion of people.
But yeah, what I mean by it being related to Kuvaad
is it's about things giving birth to other things
and the taboos that you have around that
to make sure that it's good luck.
So they avoid sex in the hope that the pigs
will farrow nicely.
- I think they had some Kuvaad practices in ancient Egypt,
where when a child was born,
the man would sort of play out the ritual of labor.
So they'd go into their bed and like--
- Complain.
- Basically, exactly.
It kind of sounds kind of mocking, to be honest.
Like the dress in the mother's clothing.
- Very helpful, I imagine.
- It could be a little bit more useful, I was thinking, yeah.
- It's funny, when my wife gave birth,
I was in the room when it happened.
And she had a caesarean, and what they said to me was,
"Okay, your job is, here is a Bluetooth speaker.
Put on some nice music that your wife would like."
Okay, and what I think is obviously attaching
your Bluetooth speaker to your phone
is one of the most annoying time consuming things.
Exactly, but it's just a thing that they're like,
at least making the man useful.
Giving him something which is difficult enough.
He feels like he's done something,
but easy enough that it's not gonna affect anything.
- Five hours in, you're sweating and screaming.
I can't do it, I do difficult.
- I fucking hate you.
- Which upper fish did you play?
- It was one you weren't in.
So I was reading a very old book called "The Golden Bow"
by Sir James George Fraser.
And this is like the Bible of anthropology,
which was written well over a hundred years ago.
Nowadays, if you look at it through today's lens,
a lot of the things that he came up with
are probably not true and a bit dodgy,
but he did look at lots of different cultures
and see what they did.
And he found that there was quite a lot of cultures
where when there was something happening in the farm,
like the pigs are giving birth
or we're laying the seeds for some plants or stuff,
there were quite a lot of people not having sex.
- Right, because they were just so busy.
- No, well, it could have been that that was the reason.
His theory, again, we don't really adhere to his theories much,
is that basically you're taking up too much
of the world's energy.
And you don't want to use up all the energy
because you want to let the crops grow.
And if you have too much sex,
then the chi or whatever isn't going into the plants
and they won't grow as well.
- This is what I told myself when I shared a flat
and my flatmates were all of having loads of sex
and I was sitting in front of the TV.
So really my pyjamas listening to them thinking,
this is fine, this is fine.
I shouldn't be able to talk.
- Listening to them.
(all laughing)
I wish for the poll you love on TV, Alex.
- You know what I mean?
There's a lot of thin walls.
You can hear stuff from the left and the right
and you can't hear your YouTube video about buses.
(all laughing)
But yeah, according to him, in other parts of Melanesia,
men wouldn't sleep with their wives
when they were training their vines.
- Yeah, these are all excruciatingly slow things.
- Yeah, Nicaraguans wouldn't have sex
between planting the maize and reaping the maize.
- Wow.
- And the Cate-ish people of Australia
wouldn't have sex after laying the grass seed
until the first bits of grass popped up.
- So it's almost like Lent.
It's just a season of, yeah, abstinence.
But then he also said that, let's say,
this theory of the energy is true.
Some people thought, well, by having sex,
we'll increase the energy in the area
and it will be better for the plants.
- Yeah, sow some seeds while you're sowing some seeds.
- Exactly.
And so he said that in Ukraine,
all the young married people would go into a field
and roll around in it after you've planted some seeds.
- What, having sex with each other?
- It just said rolling around.
- Right.
(all laughing)
- It's like when you roll down a hill.
- Yeah, I think there might have been naked,
so that's bringing some energy in there.
He said in Russia, it would be similar,
but it would be a priest who would be rolled around
by all the women in the village.
- That sounds really fun.
(all laughing)
- That's like when you got the bumps on your birthday.
- So it's just one priest and all the women.
And then he said, the papillies of Central America
have an older and ruder custom designed
to impart fertility into the fields.
And because it was an old book,
whenever it was something really rude,
it wouldn't say what it was.
- Oh, okay.
- So it's some kind of--
- But you would put in a teaser, like a little taster.
- For me, it's either having literal sex in the field
or masturbating into the field.
- Yeah.
- I don't know much about it.
- Oh yeah, it's gotta be that one.
- Yeah, yeah.
In Tudor times in England, according to historian
Lauren Johnson, you weren't supposed to have sex
any time in Lent, any time in Advent,
any time in Pentecost,
when a woman was menstruating,
when a woman was pregnant for a month after giving birth,
when a woman was breastfeeding,
during any of the holy days,
during any of the days when you were taking communion,
all the days leading up to taking communion.
- Okay. - You were not supposed
to have sex in any of those days.
- But on the 7th of March--
- Yeah, what do you mean you got a headache?
(all laughing)
- On the 7th of March,
assuming that isn't a holiday,
but not in the daytime.
- Right, okay, fine.
- So that's being the nighttime.
- And also, especially in the middle ages,
you could only really have sex to produce a child.
- But presumably people did, right?
- Yeah, they weren't-- - Yeah, they weren't involved.
- How-- - It's just taboo.
It's just taboo, it's just not talking about it.
- That's undoubtedly true,
but if you wanted to get away with it,
you didn't have to go to a church to get married.
Basically, it was just an exchange of vows
in front of a witness that meant you were married.
- That witness was usually me.
(all laughing)
- The witness couldn't be downstairs
watching a bus video that they had to leave.
So for instance, there was one 15th century couple
who got married in Yorkshire while milking a cow.
- Oh, okay, that's nice. - That's quite a lot of that, yeah.
- That's one of those hipster quirky weddings, isn't it?
Oh, we did arse on the top of the Empire State Building.
Oh, we did arse while milking a cow.
(all laughing)
- Where did you get married?
- Yeah, on the side of the other seat,
next to a tiny ruined chapel.
What's your point?
(all laughing)
- Pig sex.
- Okay.
- As in, should we talk about it?
- Yeah, go on.
- Oh, you weren't suggesting it.
(all laughing)
Yeah, let's talk about it.
When pigs are pregnant, they're pregnant for three months,
three weeks, and three days.
- Are they?
- That's the gestation period, is that right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- Isn't that weird?
- That's three weeks and three days.
- Yeah, I mean, not exactly, presumably,
but their due date is saying when they go to the doctor.
- Yeah, exactly, obviously, it varies,
but that's the official period, yeah.
- Nice.
- Also, pig sex smells like truffles,
and that's why we use pigs for truffles,
because female pigs,
they think they're looking for sex email pigs.
That's what they're smelling and looking for.
- Really? - Yeah.
- And they think sex email pigs live underground?
- No, they'll see, like, they just want his fuck
and looking for anything that smells like a sexy pig, yeah.
- There is a building in China that contains 300,000 pigs.
- Real pigs?
- Ooh, China pigs.
- Real pigs, the great pigs of China.
- What floor?
- They're on all the floors.
- The entire building is a pig farm.
- Yeah, yeah, so it's like probably 20 storerooms high,
about as long as it is high,
and it's just full of pigs everywhere.
- Wow.
- And they have--
- I'm imagining like a pig office, sorry, now,
like when they're wearing ties.
- You know what, it is like,
the building looks like a really sort of
dystopian office building.
It's very nondescript.
It just looks like a big old building.
They have temperature control, ventilation control,
the animals are fed automatically,
just one person in a central control clicks a button,
and then each pig gets a little bit of food.
And the idea is that if you farm pigs in this way,
then you can get lots of meat,
which they need in China.
But also, they don't mix with the domestic pigs,
so there might be less transfer of diseases
and stuff like that.
- Right.
- Where of course, everyone else says,
well, on the other hand,
you've got 300,000 pigs next to each other,
so if one of them gets sick,
probably they all get sick.
- Yeah.
- And it's also just sounds a bit sad.
I mean, I know we do it with people,
and everyone goes into the office every day, but.
- It's not quite the same in it.
- It's not the same as it is, exactly.
- Imagine if you're late for a meeting,
and you've got the address wrong by one bill.
(all laughing)
- I was just looking up some other sex-related taboos,
like things that you do for luck,
or things that you can't do,
and came across the Banyangkoli people in,
they're in Uganda, and South West Uganda,
and the aunt in those communities
has a really interesting position,
so it's her responsibility to make sure
when her niece gets married that the groom is potent
and able to, you know, perform.
- And that there's actually--
- Stop looking so, you tell me it's my eyes
when you talk about this.
(all laughing)
- That plant over there, that parka really liked,
it's still doing well, isn't it?
- It's really, yeah, it's really fine.
- Who jizzed into it?
(all laughing)
Sorry.
- So they, and this is actually another example
of how a lot of people still have the anthropological approach
that is very old fashioned and offensive.
There's so much online about how the aunts
have sex with their niece's grooms.
Not helped by, I think, people from that community,
who say, "Yeah, yeah, we do that,
"but I'm pretty sure they're joking."
But what the aunt does do is she watches
the first time the couple has sex,
so she comes into the room to make sure
that everything's functioning.
- How interesting, yeah.
Is that still practice, are you saying?
- Yeah, it is sometimes, I believe.
- If that's what you do, it's not weird.
I mean, that's not all--
- No, that's true, that's sexual practice.
That's just--
- It's just humans, we just try new things, don't we?
- Yeah, and there's always something about all the taboos
around the stuff that's the most basic thing we can do
as creatures, like sex and going to the toilet
and stuff like that.
We talk about it, and it's all private,
but it is the only things that nearly all of us
have in common, so why--
- I mean, pretty much all we talk about
is sex and going to the loo, to be honest.
- No, that's true.
- Certainly on this podcast.
- Yeah, obviously, we're advanced as a society.
- We've broken down those taboos.
(upbeat music)
- Okay, that's it, that is all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you'd like to get in contact with any of us
about the things that we have said
over the course of this podcast,
we can all be found on various places on social media.
I'm on Instagram, I'm on @Shriberland, James.
- My Instagram is no such thing as James Harkin.
- Alex. - My Instagram is Alex H. Bell.
And Anna, how can they get to us as a group?
- You can email podcast@qi.com,
or you can go to @NoSuchThing on Twitter,
or @NoSuchThingAsAfish on Instagram.
- That's right, or you can go to our website,
NoSuchThingAsAfish.com.
All of the previous episodes are up there.
There's also a link, the gateway to Club Fish,
our secret members club,
so we put a lot of bonus material up on.
There's also a Discord that you get access to,
so you can chat to all the other fish listeners.
Otherwise, just come back here next week.
We'll be back with another episode,
and we'll see you then.
Goodbye.
(upbeat music)